---
layout: post
title: Changing My Socks During a Pandemic
---

Like many people living within the New York metropolitan area, I took the upcoming news about the COVID-19 pandemic with a grain of salt. For me, the pandemic up until recently was something that impacted my relatives in the Philippines more than anything else. Children in my family were being forced to stay home in January due to schools being shut down. At the time, I chose to ignore it. My family was safe. There was no other reason for me to pay attention to something that sounded like it was incredibly far away from me. As an EMT for the past couple of years on a semi-regular basis, I considered myself in a position to be informed of the impact that something like a pandemic would have locally and didn't need to think much about it for a while.

This would quickly change for the majority of us living in the area but especially for me, as an EMT volunteer in one of the most impacted counties in my state. I found myself pulling additional hours at the squad and contemplating the state of my Last Will and Testament. However, like many first responders who feel the call to serve, I wanted to do more in my spare time. The answer to this came through Team Rubicon, a disaster relief organization mobilizing food relief operations in my area. I found myself signing up for these operations and added them to my routine along with working my full-time job from home, and serving as an EMT in my area.

After about a month of working remotely while doing EMS and Team Rubicon operations weekly, I was feeling less energetic. Less engaged with things. More stressed over things that wouldn't typically bother me. I didn't feel like I was in a very good place. My sleep schedule, which was never totally normal, went completely off the rails. Shortly after I started to recognize these feelings, one of the operations for Team Rubicon was stopped for a few days with the Strike Team Leader indicating that the pause was meant to give people time to change their socks. The concept of "changing your socks" has its origins within the military. It is what is used to remind people to take purposeful breaks. It's a running joke with military personnel since changing your socks is often meant to be a "cure-all" for all sorts of ailments. What it's really meant to do is to force someone to take steps back, slow down, and to recharge as needed.

When I considered my lack of energy both on the job and off of it as well as of symptoms of burn out, I realized that it might be time for me to change my own socks. I decided to take a few days off from work. I updated my availability for Team Rubicon because I realized that time off from work that was spent doing needed humanitarian relief wasn't true days off for me. During this time, I found myself feeling the urge to go back to work again and finding my batteries recharged and rejuvenated. I've spent the week engaged in things that have nothing to do with work, and limiting my first response time and couldn't feel happier.  I'm looking forward to going back to work and will have to be more mindful of these things. 

We could all benefit from changing our socks from time to time but especially when working under less-than-ideal circumstances. This week served as a reminder to myself to take the time off when needed. In EMT school, the version of this reminder comes in the form of remembering to take care of yourself before your patient. Because I did this, I'll be jumping back into the swing of things with a good set of batteries, and ensuring that I'm at my best within every facet of my life: as a wife, daughter, tech professional, EMT, and humanitarian aid volunteer.